# Thesis-in-EE
Analysis of Stock Price Predictions using Deep Learning Techniques

Stock market prices are difficult to forecast due to their highly volatile, complex, and nonlinear nature, which accounts for numerous inconsistencies in their data. These inconsistencies are usually influenced by factors such as political and economic alterations, leadership changes, investment sentiments, financial policies, public psychology, and news articles pertinent to the situation of companies. In the past, artificial neural networks (ANNs) were popularly employed to predict and analyze stock market movements, financial incomes, and exchange rates. ANNs have the capacity to learn from historical stock data, however, one major limitation of ANNs is that they tend to suffer from overfitting issues due to the presence of large numbers of parameters to fix and little to no historical information about the importance of the inputs in the analyzed problems. On the contrary, recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are special types of ANNs that were developed to learn sequential or time varying patterns. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural network is such an example of a strong RNN architecture that can learn from historical data and predict models applied in the field of computational intelligence. LSTM specializes at remembering values for either long or short durations of time. A detailed explanation of how LSTM works, and its overall architecture has been provided in the following section below.

The primary purpose of this thesis is to analyze stock price predictions using deep learning techniques, such as Keras and TensorFlow. Keras is an open-source neural network library that is written in Python and can run on top of TensorFlow, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, R, Theono, or PlaidML. Keras was developed to allow fast analyses with neural networks; it particularly focuses on its ability to be user-friendly, modular, and extensible. TensorFlow is also an open-source Python-friendly library that was designed to perform numerical computations, thereby making machine learning faster and easier. The datasets used for this thesis consisted of Apple, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse stock prices extracted from Yahoo to facilitate real-time predictions. The extracted data was preprocessed, normalized to have values between 0 and 1, and then split into training and testing datasets. Using the Keras and TensorFlow libraries in Python, the respective datasets were fed into the LSTM neural networks to train the models. The hyperparameters of the LSTM neural networks were tuned while fitting the test datasets with the trained models. Finally, the root mean square error (RMSE) values of each model were evaluated and their corresponding graphical models were plotted to demonstrate the performance of the LSTM neural networks using Keras and TensorFlow. 
